Invoice Data Extraction and Analysis
Overview
This project is a Python-based application that extracts structured data from invoices or bills in various formats (PDF, image, etc.). It uses Optical Character Recognition (OCR) technology, data parsing techniques, and a custom web interface built using Streamlit. The extracted data is saved in an Excel file and a monthly financial summary is generated for easy tracking and analysis of invoices.

Features
File Upload Support: Upload invoices in PDF or image formats.
OCR Integration: Uses Tesseract OCR to extract text from images.
Data Extraction: Extracts key details like invoice number, GST number, date, product details, and pricing.
Excel File Management: Appends data to an existing Excel file, ensuring no duplicates.
Monthly Summary Generation: Financial summary of invoices grouped by month.
AI-Powered Data Refining: Leverages Google Generative AI for data enhancement.
Interactive Web Interface: User-friendly interface built with Streamlit for real-time interaction.

Technologies Used
Programming Language: Python
OCR Library: pytesseract
Web Framework: Streamlit
Data Handling: Pandas
Excel File Handling: openpyxl
Google Generative AI: For AI-powered data enhancement
Image Handling: Pillow
PDF Parsing: PyPDF2
Text Processing: Spacy
Installation
Prerequisites
Python Version: Ensure Python 3.9 or above is installed.

Install Dependencies: Clone the repository and install required libraries by running the following command in the project directory:

pip install -r requirements.txt
Tesseract OCR: You need to install Tesseract OCR to process images:

Download and install Tesseract from here.
Add the Tesseract path to your environment variables or specify it directly in the script:
pytesseract.tesseract_cmd = r'C:\Program Files\Tesseract-OCR\tesseract.exe'
Google Generative AI API Key:

To integrate AI-powered data refinement, configure your API key for Google Generative AI by setting it in the script:
genai.configure(api_key="YOUR_API_KEY")
Configuration
Before running the application, you may need to adjust the following configuration settings:

Tesseract Path: Make sure Tesseract is properly configured for your system:

pytesseract.tesseract_cmd = r'C:\Path\To\Tesseract\tesseract.exe'
Excel File Path: Set the path where the extracted data will be stored:

EXCEL_FILE_PATH = 'path_to_save_data/eng.xlsx'
Google API Key: Set your Google API key for data enhancement:

genai.configure(api_key="YOUR_API_KEY")
Usage
Run the Application: Launch the Streamlit application by running:

streamlit run last.py
Upload Invoice: Upload invoices in PDF or image format via the web interface.

Extract Data: The application will extract structured data (e.g., invoice number, GST number, product details) from the uploaded file.

View Results: Extracted data will be displayed on the Streamlit interface and appended to an Excel file (eng.xlsx).

Download Files: You can download the Excel file containing the extracted data or the monthly summary.

***this get.py file which works for database connectivity with mysql**